Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




  Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game:
  Design Doc
    2026-09-17        · ​@Someone


  Summary
  A browser game in three.js where the player arrives in China knowing a few words and has
  to earn a living. Every job, purchase and conversation runs in Mandarin. Understanding
  more words unlocks better jobs, so language is the player's earning power.

       Teaches: HSK 2.0 vocabulary and sentence patterns, one HSK level per phase (Phase 1
       = HSK 1, up to Phase 4 = HSK 4).
       Feels like: Abeto's Messenger — calm, small world, talk-and-fetch quests, toon shading
       with outlines.
       Looks like: a Game Boy Advance-era fixed-camera game — small characters seen from
       a high angle, simple levels.
       Build now: Phase 1 only. One street, three jobs, 150 words.
       Decide after: whether testers finish it, remember the words, and ask for more. Phase 2
       is built only if they do.

  "Make It in China" is a working title.


  Concept and core loop
  The player is taught a handful of words, then left in a Chinese city to live and earn. Each
  new word arrives inside a new situation, and the same word comes back later with a
  different nuance. Money gives the player a reason to care whether they understood.




                                                                                          Page 1 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




     flowchart LR
       A[Wake up<br/>new day] --> B[Pick a job<br/>or errand]
       B --> C[NPC speaks<br/>audio + hanzi]
       C --> D[Player replies]
       D -->|understood| E[Earn yuan<br/>word logged]
       D -->|misunderstood| F[Funny mix-up<br/>small cost]
       F --> C
       E --> G[Spend: rent,<br/>food, tools]
       G --> H[New job or<br/>area unlocks]
       H --> A


  Comprehension gates progress. A wrong answer never shows a red cross; the NPC acts
  on what the player said, and the player sees the result.

  Examples of the word-then-nuance pattern:

       要 first means "want" at a food stall, later "need" from a boss, later "going to" in a
       schedule.
       几 vs 多少 — asking "how many" for small and large numbers, learned by getting a
       delivery count wrong.
       你 vs 您 — the same sentence lands differently with a shopkeeper and with an
       employer.
       Measure words at the market:                    一个, 一杯, 一本.
  Design principles
  These are agreed and apply to every scene and system.

   1. Language is the mechanic. Progress depends on understanding. No quiz screens
       bolted onto a walking game.
   2. Failure is cheap and funny. Wrong order delivered, overpaid for cabbage, got off at the
      wrong stop. Small yuan loss, a laugh, try again. Never game over.
   3. 90% known, 1–2 new. Each exchange uses about 90% words the player has already
      met, plus one or two new ones. A scene of 4–6 exchanges introduces about 6 words in
       total. More than that becomes guessing.
   4. Audio first. The NPC speaks; hanzi are shown; pinyin stays hidden until tapped.
   5. Characters live in the world. Signs, menus, receipts, price tags and phone messages
      are all in hanzi. This is the reading practice.




                                                                                               Page 2 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




   6. Nuance after experience. A mentor NPC explains a usage point after the player has
      run into it, not before.
   7. Hidden spaced repetition. Words the player missed come back in later scenes. The
      player never sees a review queue.
   8. Scripted dialogue, not a live LLM. Keeps vocabulary strictly in-level, runs offline, costs
      nothing per player. LLM free-chat is a possible later add-on, constrained to the word
       list.
   9. Time moves in days, not a real-time clock. Nobody is rushed mid-sentence.
 10. Grey boxes before polish. Fun and learning get proven with placeholder art. Art
     comes last.


  Content constraints
  These are hard requirements from the owner, not style preferences.

  No depicted faces

       Every human and animal character has no facial features: no eyes, nose or mouth, on
       the mesh or in the texture.
       No character portraits in dialogue. Use a name label and a speech bubble.
       Characters are told apart by outfit, colour, headwear, build and what they carry.
       The fixed high camera helps: characters are small and read by silhouette.
       If a downloaded model has a painted face, erase it in the texture atlas before use. If the
       face is modelled geometry, flatten it in Blender.
       The exact standard (blank head acceptable, or something stricter) is an open question
       below. Build character loading so the head mesh can be swapped in one place.

  No real people or licensed IP

       Jackie Chan Adventures and Messenger are references for look and feel only. No
       names, likenesses, characters, assets or music from either.
       Do not copy assets out of the Messenger site or its clones.

  Economy and theme limits

       Money comes from wages and trade only. No loans, interest, credit or investment
       returns anywhere in the economy.
       No gambling, lottery or chance-based money mechanics.
       No alcohol. Business meals happen over tea and food.



                                                                                            Page 3 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




        No romance plots or suggestive content.
        No magic or supernatural story elements.
        HSK 4 includes            信用卡 (credit card). Teach it as a word seen at a shop counter; keep it
        out of the player's economy.


  Phase plan
  Phase N teaches HSK N (HSK 2.0 word lists). Finishing a phase means the player has met
  every word on that level's list. Each phase is a new district of the same city and a step up
  the career ladder.


    Phase HSK               New                Career stage                What the language test      Reply mechanic
          level             words                                          becomes
                            (total)

    1          HSK 1        150 (150)          Porter, dishwasher,         Did you catch the number,   Pick a response
                                               delivery                    item, place?

    2          HSK 2        150 (300)          Waiter, shop assistant      Orders, prices, time,       Assemble word tiles
                                                                           directions, bargaining

    3          HSK 3        300 (600)          Own stall or small shop     Suppliers, hiring,          Type pinyin
                                                                           complaints

    4          HSK 4        600                Real company: staff,        Did you say it the right    Type pinyin; pinyin
                            (1,200)            ads, competitors, travel    way? Tone, connectives,     hints off by default
                                                                           written messages


  Notes for later phases:

        Phase 4 shifts from comprehension to register. Several replies are grammatical but
        differ in tone: how to refuse, apologise to a customer, or criticise an employee.
        Connectives carry the meaning in Phase 4 (                        即使…也, 不管…都, 既然, 否则). Misreading
        one flips the terms of a deal, which makes a good cheap failure.
        HSK lists are thin on trade vocabulary in Phases 1–3. A small set of off-list words is
        allowed (for example       ,        老板 进货
                                        ). Mark them as bonus words in the notebook so the
        HSK mapping stays honest.
        Content volume doubles at Phase 4. Writing, not code, becomes the bottleneck. This is
        why the dialogue pipeline in the architecture section matters from day one.

  Only Phase 1 is in scope now. The engine should assume four districts exist.




                                                                                                                       Page 4 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




  Phase 1 scope
  Phase 1 covers arrival day through the first week: one street, 150 HSK 1 words, about 25
  scenes of 4–6 exchanges each (roughly 6 new words per scene). A tester should finish it
  in two to three hours across a few sittings.

  In scope

       One street with 6–8 locations: rented room, noodle shop, fruit stall, small supermarket,
       bus stop, warehouse, tea house, a locked gate to the Phase 2 district.
       About 8 NPCs: landlord, mentor (a friendly neighbour), three employers, two
       shopkeepers, one customer type that repeats.
       Three jobs:
            Porter at the warehouse — numbers, 这/那, 个, 大/小, 多少.
            Dishwasher at the noodle shop — food and drink words, 杯, 碗 (bonus), 不, 有/没有.
            Delivery on foot — places, 在, 哪儿, 前面/后面, names and times.
       Daily-life scenes: paying rent, buying food, asking the time, a phone message from the
       landlord, a wrong-bus mix-up.
       Wallet, day cycle, notebook, mentor explanations, hidden repetition of missed words.
       Reply mechanic: pick one of 2–4 responses. Pinyin on tap.
       Placeholder art first; final art pass at the end (see Build order).
       Desktop and mobile browser, touch and keyboard.

  Out of scope for Phase 1

       Phases 2–4 content, word tiles, typed pinyin input.
       Multiplayer, accounts, leaderboards.
       LLM-driven free conversation.
       Speech recognition.
       A second language of instruction (English glosses only for now).

  Deliverable before any code: a scene list — every scene with its location, NPC, job or
  errand, known words used, and the new words each exchange introduces — so that all 150
  words are covered and each appears at least three times.




                                                                                          Page 5 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




  Learning system
  The game tracks every word the player has met and how well they know it, and uses that
  to choose and adapt scenes. None of this is shown as a study interface.

  How a line is presented

       Audio plays first. Hanzi appear in the speech bubble.
       Tap any word: pinyin and English gloss pop up. Tapping is logged as "needed help" for
       that word.
       A replay button repeats the audio. A slow-speed replay is available.
       New words in a line are subtly underlined the first time they appear.

  How the player replies (Phase 1)

       2–4 response options in hanzi, each with audio on tap.
       Wrong options are plausible, not silly: same word class or sub-theme (    三 vs 四 vs 十, not
       三 vs 猫).
       Every option leads somewhere. A wrong choice triggers a consequence scene, then a
       natural retry.

  Word state

  Each word has a state per player: unseen → met → shaky → known . Evidence that moves
  it: correct reply depending on that word (up), wrong reply or pinyin tap (down), time since
  last seen (decays toward shaky).

  Hidden repetition

       Scenes have slots where a word can be swapped: the customer's order, the number of
       boxes, the delivery address. The engine fills slots with the player's shaky words.
       Repeatable jobs (one more shift at the warehouse) are the review sessions. They pay a
       little and draw mostly from shaky words.
       Story scenes unlock only when the words they depend on are at least met .

  Notebook

       Fills automatically: word, pinyin, gloss, the sentence it was first heard in, audio.
       Grouped by where the player learned it (noodle shop, warehouse), not alphabetically.
       Bonus (off-list) words are marked as such.
       Shows progress toward the HSK list for the phase: for example 87 of 150.

  Mentor



                                                                                              Page 6 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




  A neighbour NPC the player can visit in the evening. After the player has hit a usage point
  in the day ( vs    几 多少 不 没
                     , vs ), the mentor explains it in two or three lines with examples.
  Explanations are in English in Phase 1.

  Failure handling

       A misunderstanding costs a few yuan or a little time, never progress.
       The consequence is shown, not told: the wrong dish arrives, the boxes go to the wrong
       door.
       After two misses on the same exchange, the NPC rephrases more simply or gestures,
       so nobody gets stuck.


  Economy
  The economy exists to make understanding matter, not to be a management sim. Keep it
  small enough to balance in a spreadsheet.

                                     元                 块
       Currency: yuan ( , shown as in speech). Prices use realistic small numbers so
       number listening is constant practice.
       Income: wages per completed task. A shift is 3–5 exchanges. Better understanding
       means fewer mix-ups, so more pay per shift.
       Costs: weekly rent, daily food, occasional items (bus fare, a phone top-up, a work tool
       that unlocks a job).
       Day cycle: each day has a fixed number of action slots (for example 4). A job shift, an
       errand or a mentor visit each use one. Sleeping ends the day. No real-time clock.
       Rent pressure is soft. Short on rent: the landlord gives a few more days and the player
       takes extra shifts. No eviction, no debt, no interest.
       Progression gate: the Phase 2 district opens when the player has saved a set amount
       and met all 150 words. Both conditions, so nobody grinds past the language.
       Failure costs: a mix-up loses 1–5 yuan or one action slot. Never more.
       Excluded by rule: loans, interest, credit, investment returns, gambling. See Content
       constraints.

  Tuning target for Phase 1: a player who understands most things reaches the gate in about
  7 in-game days; a struggling player in about 10. Nobody should fall behind permanently.




                                                                                           Page 7 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




  Visual direction and assets
  The look is low-poly models with flat colours, toon shading and dark outlines, seen from a
  fixed high camera. Most of the Messenger feel comes from shader and colour choices, not
  from the meshes, so free CC0 models are enough.

  Look

       Flat colour materials, no detailed textures. Limited palette per district; warm and calm.
       Toon shading ( MeshToonMaterial with a 2–3 step gradient map) plus outlines
       ( OutlineEffect or an inverted-hull pass). Test both on mobile for cost.
       Fixed camera, high three-quarter angle, slight follow. No player camera control in Phase
       1.
       Characters about 1/8 of screen height. Readable by silhouette and colour.
       Hanzi signage everywhere: shop names, menus, price tags, bus stop boards. Render as
       textures or troika-three-text with a bundled CJK font subset.
       UI: speech bubbles anchored to characters, name labels, wallet and day counter,
       notebook button. No portraits.

  Characters (faceless)


     Source                              What it gives              Licence   Work needed

     Quaternius                          Blank-headed               CC0       None for face;
     Universal                           mannequin +                          recolour per
     Animation Library                   locomotion, idle, carry,             character
                                         emote animations; free
                                         Standard tier has 45
                                         clips

     Universal                           130+ more clips incl.      CC0       Pick the civilian
     Animation Library                   civilian activities                  clips
     2                                   (farming, drinking,
                                         fishing)

     Quaternius                          Base bodies                CC0       Check for face
     Universal Base                      compatible with the                  geometry; flatten if
     Characters                          library, FBX and glTF                present




                                                                                                  Page 8 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




     Source                              What it gives           Licence           Work needed

     Mixamo X Bot / Y                    Faceless mannequins +   Free with Adobe   Convert FBX to
     Bot                                 large animation         account; check    GLB
                                         catalogue               terms before
                                                                 shipping

     KayKit and Kenney                   More personality,       CC0               Erase painted eyes
     characters                          varied outfits                            in the texture atlas


  Recommendation: one shared skeleton (the Quaternius rig) for every human character, so
  all animations work on everyone. Distinguish NPCs with colour, headwear and carried
  props attached to bones.

  Environment and props

       Kenney city and food kits, Quaternius town and nature packs, KayKit city builder: all
       CC0, consistent low-poly style.
       Poly Pizza to search one-off props (bowls, crates, bicycles, stalls). Check the licence on
       each model page; filter for CC0.
       OpenGameArt and Sketchfab have useful pieces, but licences vary per file (CC0, CC-
       BY, CC-BY-SA). Avoid CC-BY-SA.
       A broader list: awesome-cc0.
       Chinese street dressing (lanterns, shop fronts, signboards, steamers) will be thin in
       free packs. Plan to model 10–15 simple props in Blender.

  Asset rules

       GLB only in the build. Convert everything in Blender; strip textures to flat colours;
       compress with gltf-transform (Draco or Meshopt).
       Keep a CREDITS.md with source, author and licence for every asset, including CC0
       ones.
       Stay in one art family. Do not mix realistic and low-poly models.

  Reference reading on how Messenger was made: Communication Arts write-up.


  Technical architecture
  A static site: three.js for the world, plain DOM for UI, all content in JSON, saves in the
  browser. No backend in Phase 1.




                                                                                                    Page 9 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




  Stack

       TypeScript + Vite + three.js. No game engine on top.
       UI (bubbles, notebook, wallet) as HTML/CSS over the canvas, not drawn in WebGL.
       Hanzi render sharply and the UI is easy to change.
        GLTFLoader with Draco or Meshopt; AnimationMixer on the shared skeleton.
       Movement: click or tap to walk on a navmesh or a simple walkable grid. No physics
       engine.
       State: one plain store (Zustand or a hand-rolled one) for wallet, day, word states, scene
       flags.
       Saves: localStorage as versioned JSON, with export/import as a text string so
       testers can move devices.
       Hosting: any static host. Target under 15 MB first load, 30 fps on a mid-range Android
       phone.

  Modules

     flowchart TD
         C[Content JSON<br/>scenes, words, world] --> D[Dialogue runner]
         C --> W[World loader]
         L[Learner model<br/>word states] --> D
         D --> L
         D --> E[Economy<br/>wallet, day slots]
         D --> U[UI layer<br/>bubbles, notebook]
         W --> R[three.js renderer<br/>toon + outline]
         A[Audio player] --> U
         D --> A
         S[Save/load] --> L
         S --> E


  The dialogue runner is the centre. It reads a scene, asks the learner model which words to
  put in the open slots, plays lines, takes the reply, and reports results to the learner model
  and the economy.

  Content format

  Three files per phase: words.json (the HSK list plus bonus words), scenes.json ,
   world.json (locations, NPC placements, signage text). A scene looks like this:




                                                                                          Page 10 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




     {
         "id": "p1_noodle_order_01",
         "phase": 1,
         "location": "noodle_shop",
         "npc": "cook",
         "requires": [" ", "        茶
                                ", " "],       桌子           号
         "introduces": ["   "],         杯子
         "exchanges": [
           {
                 "line": {
                   "hanzi": "{n}             号桌子，{count}杯茶。",
                    "pinyin": "{n} hào zhuōzi, {count} bēi chá.",
                    "en": "Table {n}, {count} cups of tea.",
                    "audio": "p1_noodle_order_01_a",
                    "words": [" ", "     号
                                        ", "   ", " "] 桌子       杯子   茶
                 },
                 "slots": { "n": "number_1_10", "count": "number_1_10" },
                 "replies": [
                   { "hanzi": "            好。", "action": "serve", "check": "count_and_table" }
                 ],
                 "onWrong": "p1_noodle_wrong_table"
             }
         ]
     }


  Every line carries its own word tags. That is what makes the level checker and the learner
  model possible.

  Level checker (build this early)

  A script run in CI and before every content commit. It fails the build if:

         any line uses a word above the scene's phase that is not in introduces or marked
         bonus;
         an exchange introduces more than 2 new words;
         a line's words tags do not match its hanzi after segmentation (use jieba or a fixed
         dictionary segmenter);
         any word on the phase list appears in fewer than 3 scenes;
         a line is missing pinyin, English or audio.

  With this in place, scenes can be drafted quickly (by a person or with an LLM) and still be
  trusted.



                                                                                                  Page 11 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




  Audio

       Pre-generated audio files, not the browser's speech synthesis. Mandarin voice quality
       in browsers varies widely by device.
       Generate with a TTS service at build time from scenes.json ; one file per line, plus per-
       word clips for the notebook. Slot lines need one clip per slot value, or clips stitched at
       slot boundaries; decide during the vertical slice.
       Two or three distinct voices so NPCs sound different. Opus or AAC, mono, about 32
       kbps.
       Have a native speaker spot-check the output, especially tones on                          一 and 不.
  Text

       Bundle a subset CJK font covering only the characters used (a few hundred glyphs in
       Phase 1) to keep downloads small.
       Pinyin with tone marks everywhere, never tone numbers.


  Build order and milestones
  Prove the loop with grey boxes first; spend on art only after testers say the loop works.
  Week counts assume one developer part-time and are estimates to revise after M1.


     Milestone                                         What exists at the end                           Rough
                                                                                                        effort

     M0 — Scene list                                   Spreadsheet of ~25 scenes covering all 150       1 week
                                                       words, each word in 3+ scenes; owner signs off

     M1 — Vertical slice                               One location (noodle shop), one job, 3 scenes,   2 weeks
                                                       grey-box art, mannequin character, dialogue
                                                       runner, wallet, audio for those lines

     M2 — Pipeline                                     words.json for HSK 1, level checker in CI, TTS   1 week
                                                       build script, save/load

     M3 — Full Phase 1 in grey                         Whole street walkable, all scenes, three jobs,   3–4 weeks
     box                                               day cycle, rent, notebook, mentor, hidden
                                                       repetition

     M4 — First playtest                               3–5 testers on the grey-box build; fix what      1 week
                                                       confuses or bores them




                                                                                                                 Page 12 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




     Milestone                                         What exists at the end                              Rough
                                                                                                           effort

     M5 — Art pass                                     Toon shader, outlines, final models, signage, UI    2–3 weeks
                                                       styling, music and ambient sound

     M6 — Validation playtest                          5–10 testers, measurements from the                 2 weeks
                                                       Validation section, go/no-go on Phase 2


  Rules for the order:

       M1 is the decision point for the tech choices flagged as open (outline method, slot
       audio, navmesh vs grid).
       Nothing from M5 starts before M4 feedback is in.
       Content is written against the level checker from M2 onward; no unchecked scenes in
       the build.


  Validation
  Phase 2 gets built only if Phase 1 shows that people finish it, keep the words, and want
  more. The thresholds below are starting proposals for the owner to confirm before M6.

  Testers: 5–10 people. A few true beginners, a few at HSK 1–2. Unsupervised play on their
  own device.


     Question                                     How it is measured                      Proposed bar

     Do they finish without                       Share of testers reaching the           At least 60%
     being pushed?                                Phase 2 gate within two weeks

     Do the words stick?                          30-word recognition check               Beginners score 70% or
                                                  (audio → meaning, hanzi →               more
                                                  meaning) 3–5 days after
                                                  finishing

     Is it competitive with                       Same check against a tester             Within 15 points, with better
     drilling?                                    who spent equal time on a               listening scores
                                                  flashcard or drill site

     Do they want more?                           Asked at the end: would you             Most say yes unprompted
                                                  play Phase 2?




                                                                                                                    Page 13 of 14
Make It in China — HSK Conversation Game: Design Doc




     Question                                     How it is measured               Proposed bar

     Where does it drag?                          Per-scene drop-off, replays,     No scene loses more than
                                                  pinyin taps, time per exchange   20% of players


  Instrumentation for this is local only: the game writes an event log into the save, and
  testers export it as a text string. No analytics service, no accounts.

  The game will teach fewer words per minute than drilling. What it should win on is
  listening at natural speed, recall in context, and people coming back on their own. If it
  does not win on those, stop.


  Open questions
  The implementer should get answers to these from the owner before M1 ends.

       No-face standard: is a blank, featureless head acceptable, or is something stricter
       needed (for example hooded or covered heads for all characters)?
       Audience: adult self-learners, children, or both? This sets text size, humour and how
       much English the mentor uses.
       Explanation language: English only in Phase 1, or Bengali as well?
       Title: "Make It in China" is a placeholder.
       Protagonist: fixed character or player-chosen outfit and colour? Any backstory
       (where they came from, why they are there)?
       City: a generic fictional Chinese city, or modelled on a real one?
       TTS provider and budget for pre-generated audio, and who does the native-speaker
       check.
       Validation thresholds: confirm or change the proposed bars.
       Animals: do the faceless rules apply to cats, dogs and birds in the street, or should
       animals be left out?
       Release intent: private test only, or public and free, or paid later? This affects licence
       choices (Mixamo terms, fonts, TTS voice rights).




                                                                                                         Page 14 of 14
